content/executing-sql-scripts/_index.en.md, before:

---
title: "Executing SQL Scripts"
date: 2017-08-30T19:06:24-03:00
weight: 13
menu: main
---

If need perform an advanced SQL, you can write some scripts SQL and access them by REST. These scripts are templates where you can pass by URL, values to them.

_awesome_folder/example_of_powerful.read.sql_:
```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = "{{.field1}}" OR name = "{{.field2}}";
```

Get result:

```
GET /_QUERIES/awesome_folder/example_of_powerful?field1=foo&field2=bar
```

To activate it, you need configure a location to scripts in your prest.toml like:

```
[queries]
location = /path/to/queries/
```
### Scripts templates rules

In your scripts, the fields to replace have to look like: _field1 or field2 are examples_

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = "{{.field1}}" OR name = "{{.field2}}";
```

Script file must have a suffix based on http verb:

|HTTP Verb|Suffix|
|---|---|
|GET|.read.sql|
|POST|.write.sql|
|PUT, PATCH|.update.sql|
|DELETE|.delete.sql|

In `queries.location`, you need given a folder to your scripts:


```sh
queries/
└── foo
    └── some_get.read.sql
    └── some_create.write.sql
    └── some_update.update.sql
    └── some_delete.delete.sql
└── bar
    └── some_get.read.sql
    └── some_create.write.sql
    └── some_update.update.sql
    └── some_delete.delete.sql

URLs to foo folder:

GET    /_QUERIES/foo/some_get?field1=bar
POST   /_QUERIES/foo/some_create?field1=bar
PUT    /_QUERIES/foo/some_update?field1=bar
PATCH  /_QUERIES/foo/some_update?field1=bar
DELETE /_QUERIES/foo/some_delete?field1=bar


URLs to bar folder:

GET    /_QUERIES/bar/some_get?field1=foo
POST   /_QUERIES/bar/some_create?field1=foo
PUT    /_QUERIES/bar/some_update?field1=foo
PATCH  /_QUERIES/bar/some_update?field1=foo
DELETE /_QUERIES/bar/some_delete?field1=foo
```

### Template functions

- *isSet* return true if param is set.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table
{{if isSet "field1"}}
WHERE name = "{{.field1}}"
{{end}}
;
```

- *defaultOrValue* return param value or default value.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = '{{defaultOrValue "field1" "gopher"}}';
```

- *inFormat* if value of param is an slice this function format to an IN SQL clause.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name IN {{inFormat "field1"}};
```

Commit message:

template: split used example
ref: https://github.com/prest/template/pull/5

content/executing-sql-scripts/_index.en.md, after:

---
title: "Executing SQL Scripts"
date: 2017-08-30T19:06:24-03:00
weight: 13
menu: main
---

If need perform an advanced SQL, you can write some scripts SQL and access them by REST. These scripts are templates where you can pass by URL, values to them.

_awesome_folder/example_of_powerful.read.sql_:
```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = "{{.field1}}" OR name = "{{.field2}}";
```

Get result:

```
GET /_QUERIES/awesome_folder/example_of_powerful?field1=foo&field2=bar
```

To activate it, you need configure a location to scripts in your prest.toml like:

```
[queries]
location = /path/to/queries/
```
### Scripts templates rules

In your scripts, the fields to replace have to look like: _field1 or field2 are examples_

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = "{{.field1}}" OR name = "{{.field2}}";
```

Script file must have a suffix based on http verb:

|HTTP Verb|Suffix|
|---|---|
|GET|.read.sql|
|POST|.write.sql|
|PUT, PATCH|.update.sql|
|DELETE|.delete.sql|

In `queries.location`, you need given a folder to your scripts:


```sh
queries/
└── foo
    └── some_get.read.sql
    └── some_create.write.sql
    └── some_update.update.sql
    └── some_delete.delete.sql
└── bar
    └── some_get.read.sql
    └── some_create.write.sql
    └── some_update.update.sql
    └── some_delete.delete.sql

URLs to foo folder:

GET    /_QUERIES/foo/some_get?field1=bar
POST   /_QUERIES/foo/some_create?field1=bar
PUT    /_QUERIES/foo/some_update?field1=bar
PATCH  /_QUERIES/foo/some_update?field1=bar
DELETE /_QUERIES/foo/some_delete?field1=bar


URLs to bar folder:

GET    /_QUERIES/bar/some_get?field1=foo
POST   /_QUERIES/bar/some_create?field1=foo
PUT    /_QUERIES/bar/some_update?field1=foo
PATCH  /_QUERIES/bar/some_update?field1=foo
DELETE /_QUERIES/bar/some_delete?field1=foo
```

### Template functions


#### isSet
Return true if param is set.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table
{{if isSet "field1"}}
WHERE name = "{{.field1}}"
{{end}}
;
```

#### defaultOrValue
Return param value or default value.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name = '{{defaultOrValue "field1" "gopher"}}';
```

#### inFormat
If value of param is an slice this function format to an IN SQL clause.

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE name IN {{inFormat "field1"}};
```

#### split
Splits a string into substrings separated by a delimiter

```sql
SELECT * FROM table WHERE
name IN ({{ range $index,$part := split 'test1,test2,test3' `,` }}{{if gt $index 0 }},{{end}}'{{$part}}'{{ end }});

```
