content/_index.en.md, before:

---
date: 2016-04-23T15:21:22+02:00
title: Welcome
type: homepage
menu: main
weight: 1
---

## What is pREST?

pREST is a way to serve a RESTful APIs for any database. Right now we support PostgreSQL and support to others databases such as MySQL are being developed by the community.

## Problem

There is PostgREST written in Haskell, but keeping Haskell software in production is not an easy job. With this need pREST was born.

[Read more](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/41).

## Databases supported

- PostgreSQL
  - 9.4 or higher
- MySQL ([development](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/239))

## Supported Operating system

- Linux
  - i386
  - AMD 64
  - ARM 5
  - ARM 6
  - ARM 7
  - ARM 64
  - MIPS
  - MIPS 64
  - MIPS LE
  - MIPS 64 LE
- macOS
  - i386
  - AMD 64
- Windows
  - i386
  - AMD 64
- BSD ([we need your help](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/279))

## Versions

- lastest (developer)
- [0.3.0](https://github.com/prest/prest/releases/tag/v0.3.0) (latest stable release)

Commit message:

new prefix proposal, exchange postgres to pure
Signed-off-by: Avelino <t@avelino.xxx>

content/_index.en.md, after:

---
date: 2016-04-23T15:21:22+02:00
title: Welcome
type: homepage
menu: main
weight: 1
---

## What is pREST?

pREST is a way to serve a RESTful APIs for any database. Right now we support PostgreSQL and support to others databases such as MySQL are being developed by the community.

> It started with PostgreSQL, but we didn't _stop here_. Our purpose is to support **other databases (relational and non-relational)** - *we understand the size of the challenge, so I invite you to contribute to the evolution of the project_.

[**All releases**](/releases/)

### Because the name pREST?

**P**_ostgreSQL_ **REST**, today we trade **p** of _PostgreSQL_ to **Pure**.
**Because Pure?** Comes from **Pure functions** have lots of properties that are important in _functional programming_, including `referential transparency` (you can replace a function call with its resulting value without changing the meaning of the program).

## Problem

There is PostgREST written in Haskell, but keeping Haskell software in production is not an easy job. With this need pREST was born.

[Read more](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/41).

## Databases supported

- PostgreSQL
  - 9.4 or higher
- MySQL ([development](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/239))
- **...** Would you like to help **pREST** support another database? [Share your need here!](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/new?title=database support).

## Supported Operating System

- Linux
- macOS
- Windows
- BSD ([we need your help](https://github.com/prest/prest/issues/279))
